This is the readme file for the Swedish part of the CONLL 2006 Shared Task.

Version: $Id: README,v 1.3 2006/01/09 15:15:37 erwin Exp $


1. Preamble

    1.1 Source

        Talbanken05 is available from
	http://w3.msi.vxu.se/~nivre/research/Talbanken05.html

    1.2 Copyright

	Copyright of Talbanken05 belongs to Jan Einarsson and Joakim
	Nivre.

    1.3 License

	Talbanken05 is a modernized version of Talbanken76, a treebank
	constructed at Lund University in the 1970s.  The treebank
	comes with no guarantee but is freely available for research
	and educational purposes as long as proper credit is given for
	the work done to produce the material (both in Lund and in
	Växjö).

2. Documentation

    2.1 Data format

    	Data adheres to the following rules:

    	* Data files contain one or more sentences separated by a
	  blank line.

    	* A sentence consists of one or tokens, each one starting on a
	  new line.

    	* A token consists of ten fields described in the table
	  below. Fields are separated by one tab character.

	* All data files will contains these ten fields, although only
          the ID, FORM, CPOSTAG, POSTAG, HEAD and DEPREL columns are
          guaranteed to contain non-underscore values for all
          languages.

	* Data files are are UTF-8 encoded (unicode).


	Field 1: ID 	

	    Token counter, starting at 1 for each new sentence.

	Field 2: FORM

	    Word form or punctuation symbol

	Field 3: LEMMA 	

	    Stem of word form. Not available for Swedish, so contains 
	    always an underscore.

	Field 4: CPOSTAG 

	    Coarse-grained part-of-speech tag; see the html
	    documentation.

	Field 5: POSTAG 	

	    Fine-grained part-of-speech tag. Not available for
	    Swedish, so identical to the coarse-grained part-of-speech

	Field 6: FEATS 	

	    List of set-valued syntactic and/or morphological
	    features.  Not available for Swedish, so this is always an
	    underscore
	
	Fields 7: HEAD 	

	    Non-projective head of current token, which is either a
	    value of ID or zero ('0')
	
	Field 8: DEPREL 	

	    Dependency relation to the non-projective-head, which is
	    'ROOT' when the value of HEAD is zero; see html
	    documentation for the set dependency relations.

	Field 9: PHEAD 	

	    Projective head of current token, which is always an
	    underscore because it is not available from the Swedish
	    treebank

	Field 10: PDEPREL 

	    Dependency relation to projective head, which is always an
    	    underscore, because it is not available from the Swedish
    	    treebank.
    
    2.2 Text

	The text material consists of two sections, the so-called
	professional prose section (P), with data from textbooks,
	brochures, newspapers, etc., and a collection of high school
	students' essays (G).

    2.3 Statistics
    
	-------------------------------
	#sentences		 11431
	#tokens			197123
	#non-punct tokens	175692
	#non-punct types 

	#coarse pos tags	    41
	#fine pos tags		    41
	#deprels		    64
	-------------------------------	

    2.4 Conversion

	The conversion of Talbanken76 to Talbanken05 is described in:

	    Jens Nilsson, Johan Hall and Joakim Nivre: MAMBA Meets
	    TIGER: Reconstructing a Swedish Treebank from Antiquity. I
	    Proceedings of the NODALIDA Special Session on Treebanks
	    (2005)
	

4. Acknowledgements

    	Jan Einarsson, Tor G Hultman, Nils Jörgensen, Ulf Teleman, and
	Margareta Westman for construction of the original Talbanken76.

    	Jens Nilsson, Johan Hall and Joakim Nivre for the conversion
	of Talbanken76 to Talbanken05, and for making it freely
	available fro research purposes.

	Joakim Nivre for prompt and proper respons to all our
	questions.
